No doubt, when you think about a computer,
you imagine something like this:
but let me tell you that there are
many other computers around us,
and we don't notice them.
Washing machines, elevators,
medical equipment, cars.
They are all equipped with some sort
of electronic intelligence,
a brain that we call "computer".
For example, a washing machine
can be programed
to fill with water, to wash and rinse,
to refill, wash, rinse and spin.
These automatic processes are carried out
by programs stored in a computer.
Elevators, depending
on which floor we are on,
which button we press,
or if we're going up or down,
are controlled by a computer
that decides where it takes you.
In a sense, the computers in elevators
and washing machines are similar.
Other types of computers
need to be more dynamic,
for example, the computers
in medical equipment,
where a person's life is at stake,
or in traffic lights, where if the light
is supposed to be red
and it suddenly goes green,
it could cause an accident.
Or the electronic braking system of a car.
Or in the case of oilfield equipment,
located hours or even days
away from the nearest town,
that equipment can't break down,
because they can't just go
and repair it all the time.
The question is:
Who designs these computers?
Who makes them? Who programs them?
And the truth is that in our country,
we often rely on computers
that are manufactured abroad and imported.
So we depend on others.
And this makes many Argentine companies
not want to use electronics
that could improve their products
or their production processes,
while others decide to continue using
their old, obsolete technology,
or choose to use imported electronic goods
and thus, depend on others.
There are very few who feel inspired
to develop their own electronic solutions.
A little less than a year ago,
together with a group of people,
we decided to try
to reverse this situation,
to help small and medium-sized
businesses in our country.
You may think that we're all
Nobel Prize winners or NASA experts,
but no, we are not.
Let me say that we're students, engineers,
businessmen, journalists, designers.
We're located all over the country,
and that means we're people
with different lifestyles
and we are very young,
with an average age of roughly 30 years.
I wish I had a photo
so you could see the whole group,
dozens and dozens of people,
but the truth is I don't have one,
because many of them
have never met in real life,
and maybe they will never meet
or get to know each other
because they work over the Internet,
and share files by e-mail or on Skype.
Despite that, we make it work.
And together we made the CIA or CIAA,
the Argentine Open Industrial Computer,
which is what I have here in my hand.
I mentioned already why we call it
a computer and why it is industrial.
But why "open"?
Because all the documentation,
all the information on how it is made,
manufactured and everything else,
is available online.
Anybody can download it and use it freely.
Now we can say
that the CIA has no secrets.
(Laughter)
What does that mean?
Let's say a company needs a computer
for their manufacturing process;
they can go and buy one from any seller,
knowing it won't depend on that vendor,
because tomorrow they could buy it
from a third party,
or manufacture it themselves.
Or, for example, if you have to build
a computer-controlled machine,
you can say, "Well, I'll make my own."
Or you can say:
"I'll download the information
then make my modifications - it's free."
and so, make your own version
for your own purposes.
And that implies job creation,
and it generates wealth
and added value in our country.
There are other types
of open computers in the world,
but they're usually operated
by multinational companies
that manufacture
the integrated circuits, the chips.
And they do it as a marketing strategy,
so that you're obligated to use
that particular company's chip.
By contrast, as we do not depend
on any multinational company,
we offer different versions
based on different processors,
and that means we are totally free,
we do not depend
on any particular company.
In addition, this computer
that I have here in my hand,
is the first open industrial computer.
It was designed from the start
to be used in industrial applications.
So, what is this made of?
Basically, it's composed of circuits,
programs, and a motherboard.
How do we do it?
Well, one person shows up
and says, "I can do X."
Another says, "OK, I can do Y,"
and yet another, "I'd like to help."
My job is to coordinate it all.
And there are even companies,
small Argentine companies,
that are competing in a certain niche,
but understand
that if they participate and collaborate,
one will sell a little more,
one can sell even more perhaps,
but they will all grow because
the industry is growing nationally.
And to do this, we have
no owner manual, no recipe,
because it is something that was
never done before anywhere in the world.
We learn as we go.
And this project is based on
collaborative volunteer work,
by people who don't charge for it,
who maybe do it at night,
when they return home from work,
or during the weekend.
Some of them are lucky
and can do it at work.
But if we add up the total number
of hours they invest in this,
it would translate
into over ten million pesos.
What is the CIAA used for?
Well, for example, they're making
applications for medical equipment,
for railway and industrial equipment,
for the petroleum industry,
the agriculture industry.
Plus, something very important for us
is that the network of more than 50
engineering schools nationwide --
virtually all the national universities
where they teach electronics --
are now fellow collaborators.
The idea is that starting
in March of next year,
all these schools will begin to use
this platform for teaching purposes,
because it is a way
to spread this knowledge,
and also a way for everybody to access it.
This is a dream.
This is the first
Argentine Open Industrial Computer.
(Applause)
There are people who leave
their mark with amazing things,
like paintings, books, or music.
We are engineers.
Our magic, our art is to make
practical things such as this computer.
Thank you very much.
(Applause)